
Vespers - Psalm 1

DUM esset rex * in accubitu suo, nardus mea dedit odórem suavitátis.

5/4

The Lord said to my Lord:
  Sit thou at my right hand:
Until I make thy enemies
  thy footstool.
The Lord will send forth the sceptre of thy power out of Sion:
  rule thou in the midst of thy enemies.
With thee is the principality in the day of thy strength: in the brightness of the saints:
  from the womb before the day star I begot thee.
The Lord hath sworn, and he will not repent:
  Thou art a priest for ever according to the order of Melchisedech.
The Lord at thy right hand
  hath broken kings in the day of his wrath.
He shall judge among nations, he shall fill ruins:
  he shall crush the heads in the land of the many.
He shall drink of the torrent in the way:
  therefore shall he lift up the head.

Dixit Dóminus Dómino meo: * Sede a dextris meis:
Donec ponam inimícos tuos, * scabéllum pedum tuórum.
Virgam virtútis tuæ emíttet Dóminus ex Sion: * domináre in médio inimicórum tuórum.
Tecum princípium in die virtútis tuæ in splendóribus sanctórum: * ex útero ante lucíferum génui te.
Jurávit Dóminus, et non pœnitébit eum: * Tu es sacérdos in ætérnum secúndum órdinem Melchísedech.
Dóminus a dextris tuis, * confrégit in die iræ suæ reges.
Judicábit in natiónibus, implébit ruínas: * conquassábit cápita in terra multórum.
De torrénte in via bibet: * proptérea exaltábit caput.
Glória Patri, et Fílio, * et Spirítui Sancto.
Sicut erat in princípio, et nunc, et semper, * et in sǽcula sæculórum. Amen.
DUM esset rex * in accubitu suo, nardus mea dedit odórem suavitátis.


* Dixit Dóminus Dómino meo:
- The Lord said to my Lord:
  * Sede a dextris meis:
  - Sit thou at my right hand:

* Donec ponam inimícos tuos,
- Until I make thy enemies
  * scabéllum pedum tuórum.
  - thy footstool.


Vespers - Psalm 2

4/5

A: Lava ejus * sub cápite meo, et déxtera illí us amplexá bitur me.


Praise the *Lord*, ye *children*:
  praise ye *the* name of the *Lord*.

Blessed be the *name* of the *Lord*,
  from *henceforth* now and *for ever*.

From the rising of the sun unto the going *down* of the *same*,
  the name of the *Lord* is worthy *of praise*.

The Lord is high above all nations;
  and his glory above the heavens.

Who is as the Lord our God, who dwelleth on high:
  And looketh down on the low things in heaven and in earth?

Raising up the needy from the earth,
  and lifting up the poor out of the dunghill:

That he may place him with princes,
  with the princes of his people.

Who maketh a barren woman to dwell in a house,
  the joyful mother of children.


A: Lava ejus * sub cápite meo, et déxtera illí us amplexá bitur me.


Vespers - Third Psalm

A: Nigra sum sed formósa, * filiae Jerúsalem: ídeo diléxit me rex, et introdúxit me in cubículum suum.

I rejoiced at the things that were said to me:
  We shall go into the house of the Lord.
Our feet were standing in thy courts, O Jerusalem. Jerusalem, which is built as a city, which is compact to- gether.

For thither did the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord: the testimony of Israel, to praise the name of the Lord.
Because their seats have sat in judgment, seats upon the house of David.
Pray ye for the things that are for the peace of Jerusalem: and abundance for them that love thee.
Let peace be in thy strength: and abundance in thy towers. For the sake of my brethren, and of my neighbours, I spoke peace of thee.
Because of the house of the Lord our God, I have sought good things for thee.

A: Nigra sum sed formósa, * filiae Jerúsalem: ídeo diléxit me rex, et introdúxit me in cubículum suum.


Vespers - Fourth Psalm

Antiphon:
Jam hiems tránsiit, imber ábiit et recéssit: surge, amíca mea, et veni.

Unless the Lord build the house, they labour in vain that build it.
Unless the Lord keep the city, he watcheth in vain that keep- eth it.
It is vain for you to rise before light, rise ye after you have sit- ten, you that eat the bread of sorrow.
When he shall give sleep to his beloved, Behold the inher- itance of the Lord are children: the reward, the fruit of the womb.
As arrows in the hand of the mighty, so the children of them that have been shaken. Blessed is the man that hath filled the desire with them; he shall not be confounded when he shall speak to his enemies in the gate.

Vespers - Fifth Psalm

Antiphon:
Speciósa facta es et suávis in delíciis tuis, sancta Dei Génitrix.

Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem: praise thy God, O Sion.
Because he hath strengthened the bolts of thy gates, he hath blessed thy children within thee. Who hath placed peace in thy borders: and filleth thee with the fat of corn.
Who sendeth forth his speech to the earth: his word runneth swiftly.
Who giveth snow like wool: scattereth mists like ashes.
He sendeth his crystal like morsels: who shall stand before the face
of his cold?
He shall send out his word, and shall melt them: his wind shall blow, and the waters shall run. Who declareth his word to Jacob: his justices and his judgments to Israel.
He hath not done in like manner to every nation: and his judgments he hath not made manifest to them.


